Master Mobile UX 

1.1 Rewire your brain

Mobile first makes you focus on content and core functionality, Helps you keep it simple, and I'm always a fan of that.

Small screens have a 2 year turnover, or more. No sharing. Everyone in the household has their own.

Mobile traffic is more than half of internet traffic.

My company isn't doing doing mobile first. They're getting away with because the apps are really not used on mobile devices. I don't think they'll get away with that for long.

Rewiring brains:
* Desktop sales on steady decline and not picking up
* People don't carry laptops on the street
* Start small scale up. Easier to make things grow than making them shrink
* Mobile is not a fad

1.2 Improve UX by understanding users

Be there - help people on their decision journey
Be useful - users won't stay if they find what they need or if it's hard to use
Be quick - not necessarily fast loading, but fast to interact with. Few clicks close to where the finger is, and fewer steps

Reachability - How do users use devices? 
Phone-Thumbs and one hand.
Notepad-two hands but still with thumbs

Slow loading? Delays in loading mean drop in traffic, meaning drop in revenue

What affects speed?
Networks are the biggest factors, infrastructure lags

How to affect speed on our own?
* Reduce image usage
* Use SVG images and webfonts
* Optimize and minify CSS and JS
* GZIP files to eliminate unnecessary data

1.3 Strategic Menu design

Software sucks. I know that. I work in the industry as a support guy.

Primary controls - know what the easiest to reach areas of the screen and put most used contorls there.
Makes users perceive the app is faster

Good enough - hamburger menu. Who really knows what it is?
Better - having MENU with a border and hamburger scored better 
Best - MENU with a border no hamburger

Users don't complain because it's so much easire easy to go to another site or get another app 

1.4 Intuitive, mobile friendly forms

Problem - lots of info demanded of user 
Forms force up/down scrolling or worse, left/right scrolling

Better?
Larger checkboxes can be hit by the thumb 
Just get the minimum info to make them smaller
Paginate the form instead of scrolling. Include progress indicator. (Finally! Someone gets it!)
Autocomplete
Make password boxes without masked text at least while typing
Remember that credit card example. It's way cool!
Present the best keyboard for the date being entered. Use number pad for number entry
Link phone numbers in web site to tap and make a call

1.5 Mobile Advertising

End users shape market, not technologies.

Research before you advertise

1990's-Content w/ almost no advertising.
Now-Ads get in the way of content, No one figured out that ads on small devices are perceived as evil
Pop ups and in betweeners are detested, esp on mobile 

How to fix?
small simple ads within the content
* larger ad can pop up once the small, inocuous ad is clicked
* get rid of the hover ad at the bottom of the screen
* Paralax windows for ads within the content

Users don't visit sites to view ads. Simple, sleek, and content first.
Do you like the ad you're showing?